ECK Elastic Stack configuration policies refinement and restructured (#5363)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/elastic-stack-configuration-policies.md

Once applied, the ECK operator continuously reconciles these policies with the targeted {{es}} and {{kib}} resources to ensure that managed settings remain enforced, enabling configuration-as-code practices and simplifying governance, standardization, and large-scale operations across multiple clusters.

This helps keep deployment manifests simpler by moving reusable configuration into `StackConfigPolicy` resources.

::::{warning}
We have identified an issue with {{es}} 8.15.1 and 8.15.2 that prevents security role mappings configured via Stack configuration policies to work correctly. Avoid these versions and upgrade to 8.16+ to remedy this issue if you are affected.
::::

::::{note}
{{stack}} configuration policies on ECK require a valid Enterprise license or Enterprise trial license. Check [the license documentation](../../license/manage-your-license-in-eck.md) for more details about managing licenses.
::::

::::{note}
Component templates created in configuration policies cannot currently be referenced from index templates created through the {{es}} API or {{kib}} UI.
::::

> ## How they work

Reviewer: I think we're moving to more verbose heading titles overall. generally avoid "they"

```suggestion
## How {{stack}} configuration policies work
```

  ::::

### Optional fields

The following fields are optional. They control which {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances the policy targets.

* {applies_to}`eck: ga 3.3+` `weight`: An integer that determines the priority of this policy when multiple policies target the same resource. Refer to [Policy priority and weight](#k8s-stack-config-policy-priority-weight) for details.

* `namespace`: The namespace of the `StackConfigPolicy` resource, used to identify the {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances to which the policy applies. If it equals the operator namespace, the policy applies to all namespaces managed by the operator. Otherwise, the policy applies only to the namespace where the policy is defined.

* `resourceSelector`: A [label selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) to identify the {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances to which the policy applies in combination with the namespace(s). If `resourceSelector` is not defined, the policy applies to all {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances in the namespace(s).

## {{es}} available settings [es-settings]

> This section describes the different {{es}} settings that can be configured through {{stack}} configuration policies. The syntax of each setting depends on the associated feature and the underlying {{es}} API. For a detailed description with examples of the different syntax types and content expectation refer to [Syntax types](#syntax-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the different {{es}} settings that can be configured through {{stack}} configuration policies. The syntax of each setting depends on the associated feature and the underlying {{es}} API. For a detailed description with examples of the different syntax types and their expected structure, refer to [Syntax types](#syntax-types).
```

### Specifics for secret mounts [k8s-stack-config-policy-specifics-secret-mounts]

The `secretMounts` field allows users to specify a user created secret and a mountPath to indicate where this secret should be mounted in the {{es}} Pods that are managed by the {{stack}} configuration policy. This can be used to add additional secrets to the {{es}} Pods that may be needed for example for sensitive files required to configure {{es}} security realms.

The referenced secret should be created by the user in the same namespace as the {{stack}} configuration policy. The operator reads this secret and copies it over to the namespace of {{es}} so that it can be mounted by the {{es}} Pods.

Example of configuring secret mounts in the {{stack}} configuration policy:

```yaml
secretMounts:
  - secretName: jwks-secret <1>
    mountPath: "/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/jwks" <2>
```

1. name of the secret created by the user in the {{stack}} configuration policy namespace.

> 2. mount path where the secret must be mounted to inside the {{es}} Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The name of the secret created by the user in the {{stack}} configuration policy namespace.
2. The mount path where the secret must be mounted to inside the {{es}} Pod.
```

In order to avoid a conflict between multiple {{es}} clusters writing their snapshots to the same location, ECK automatically:

* sets the `base_path` to `snapshots/<namespace>-<esName>` when it is not provided, for Azure, GCS and S3 repositories
* appends `<namespace>-<esName>` to `location` for a FS repository
* appends `<namespace>-<esName>` to `path` for an HDFS repository

## {{kib}} available settings [kib-settings]

The following settings can be configured for {{kib}} under `StackConfigPolicy.spec.elasticsearch`:

| Policy field | Description | Syntax and schema |
|---|---|---|
| `config` | Settings that go into `kibana.yml` | Settings map<br>[{{kib}} settings reference](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/general-settings.md) |
| `secureSettings` | Secure settings for the {{kib}} keystore | List of secrets to add to the keystore<br>[{{kib}} Secure Settings](/deploy-manage/security/k8s-secure-settings.md#k8s-kibana-secure-settings) |

## Examples

### Configuring authentication policies using {{stack}} configuration policy [k8s-stack-config-policy-configuring-authentication-policies]

> {{stack}} configuration policy can be used to configure authentication for {{es}} clusters. Check [Managing authentication for multiple stacks using {{stack}} configuration policy](../../users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/manage-authentication-for-multiple-clusters.md) for some examples of the various authentication configurations that can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An {{stack}} configuration policy can be used to configure authentication for {{es}} clusters. Refer to [](../../users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/manage-authentication-for-multiple-clusters.md) for some examples of the various authentication configurations that can be used.
```

> ### Configure a snapshot repository, an {{slm-init}} policy and cluster settings

Reviewer: All heading tenses should match - prob the infinitive ("Configure")

## Syntax types used in configuration policy fields [syntax-types]

Configuration policy fields use one of the following syntax types, depending on the kind of setting being configured.

| Syntax type | Description |
|---|---|
| **Settings map** | A map where keys correspond directly to {{es}} or {{kib}} configuration setting names. The structure matches the settings accepted by the corresponding API or configuration file, expressed in YAML instead of JSON. |
| **Named resources map** | A map where each key is a user-defined logical name and the value contains the resource definition. The resource definition structure matches the payload accepted by the corresponding {{es}} API, expressed in YAML instead of JSON. |
| **List of resources** | A list of objects where each item defines a resource entry. Each object follows the schema expected by the corresponding configuration mechanism. |

::::{note}
Configuration definitions that correspond to {{es}} APIs (for example snapshot repositories, ingest pipelines, or index templates) use the same structure as the API request body, represented in YAML rather than JSON.
::::

### Syntax Examples

> **Settings map**: 

Reviewer: would like to see some sort of api example that's more complex here

          template:
            mappings:
              properties:
                '@timestamp':
                  type: date
        test-runtime-component-template-test:
          template:
            mappings:
              runtime:
                day_of_week:
                  type: keyword
      composableIndexTemplates:
        test-template:
          composed_of:
          - test-component-template
          - test-runtime-component-template-test
          index_patterns:
          - test*
          - bar*
          priority: 500
          template:
            aliases:
              mydata: {}
            mappings:
              _source:
                enabled: true
              properties:
                created_at:
                  format: EEE MMM dd HH:mm:ss Z yyyy
                  type: date
                host_name:
                  type: keyword
            settings:
              number_of_shards: 1
          version: 1
```
1. Each top-level key represents a user-defined resource name.

**List of resources**

```yaml
spec:
  elasticsearch:
    secretMounts: <1>
      - name: my-secret
        mountPath: /etc/secrets
      - name: my-certificate

>         mountPath: /usr/share/elasticsearch/config/my-certificate

Author: totally! my bad!
